THE BANE AND ANTIDOTE.

In one way or another the Tories always contrive
to turn pubiic abuses to their profit. Sometimes
the abuse is extremely lucrative in itself, and then
they advocate and support it lustily ; sometimes the
‘advantage of the abuse is counterbalanced, in their
‘eyes, by the popular excellence of the system which
‘has contracted it, and then they fiud it more for
‘their interest to employ it as a screen for their

attacks upon the system.
a ae Tie <b> ~ Marcin) ere eee aN the
«Ma ee ns,

On a comparison of their own intereses Ib tile

l abuses of the irish system of registration with the
popular interest in some of its main features, they
found the balance upon the whole adverse te them,

land forthwith they started up violent registry
| reformers. They reasoned that it would be a fine
thing both to gain a character for aversion te frau-

| dulent practices, and use those same practices as a
colourable basis for 2 measure depriving the people

of Ireland of their franchises.
ox Ereiamad O1 buch tan

Qut of this honest

Bill, the malignities and
the chief of them, We

ciently exposed.
Our design 1n

in juxta-position with
remedy the same disor

policy grew Lord Stanley’s
hypocrisies of which, or
have already perhaps suffi-

ow returning to the subject is to
so unprincipled and mischievous

another which professes to

ders, and is so framed as to

do so without simultaneously disfranchising the

country, by making tt

almost insuperable,

ie difficulties of registration

a | he si atagas %,
ft was well observed by Lord John Russell on
Thursday night—

“The question of registration is a most important one.
Much depends on it; and while it was possible, on the one
hand, to admit voters not entitled to the franchise, it is just
as possible to institute a vexatious system which will nar-
row the franchise in the greatest possible degree.”

awe 8s. a
} eos ie re . . ~
The broad distinction between the Ministerial

Bill and Lord Stanley’s is the distinction between
annual revision and annual disfranchisement and re-
registry. Lord Stanley’s measure would disiran-
chise Ireland once a year. That of the Irish Govern-
ment is properly confined to a mere revision upop
certain specified grounds, It limits the power of
objection, which in the Tory Bill has no bounds, to
the cases of—1, Deaths—2, Loss of qualification—
13, Personal disqualification—4, Fraudulent persona-
tion—5, More than one registration for the same
property. These heads will be found to comprise
all the cases of abuse that have been alleged to exist
| or flourish in the system now established.
Providing for these cases fully as effectually as
the Tory scheme, the Ministerial plan affords pro-
tection to the honest elector, and contemplates the
duration ef the franchise for eight years, not its
fluctuation annually at the mercy of barristers, at-
torneys, judges, and landlords, ‘The Tory Bili pro-
tects nothing but the instruments of annoyance and
the powers of oppression, It makes nothing so
perishable as liberty, and nothing so permanent as
litigation. The design of it is to rip open once a
year the question of the elector’s title, and investi-
gate once a year the value of his qualification,—con-
trary to the principles of natural equity, and cor-
trary to the practice of British law. The Ministe-

lrial Bill, on the other hand, conformably to those
principles and that practice, proposes to communi-
lcate some weight and durability to the decisions of
the legal tribunals on points lke these, so us to give
the electoral system some degree of fixity, and set a
limit to litigious and vexatious opposition. The
period of eight years is that assigned by the present
law as the ter: of an elector’s right, and clearly the
popular tendencies of the_ Reform Act/ought to be
maintained, if they cannot be extended.

gf , eS
We have thus to choose between a plan of relorr -
ing without destroying, and one that far less effec-
tually |reforms|than destroys. On one side is a
temperate but adequate correction of abuses ; on
the other an indiscriminate havoe of wrong and
right, On one side annual dispossession and unset~
tlement; on the other a sober but efficacious annual
revision. Here a power of objection and vexation
without stop or stint; there an equitable limit to
objection, nicely drawn between the principle of pre-
serving the purity of the register on the one side,
and keeping the approaches to it open and easy on
the other. The Whig Bill respects the Reform Act);
the Tory Bill characteristically sets it at nought.
The Whig Bill regards established rights of indivi-

‘duats ; the Tory Biil serves the elector with an an-
‘nual ejectment from his constitutional holding, the
elective franchise, in the hopes of at last exhausting
his means of resistance and powers of endurance,
and sinking him again into the state of vilieinage
out of which the law so lately raised him.

. >
The “Ministerial Bull, beside empowering the
assistant barristers to expunge names from the
register in the five cases already enumerated, directs

them also to strike off the names of persons regis-
tered more than eight years, and not re-registered

within that period. Thus every eight yesrs it is
proposed to put the elector to the proof of his
claims de novo. This is done to conform to what
the law prescribes at present ; but, as the measure
proposed by Lord John Russell for England ex-
empts the voter for life from any such general re-In-
vestigation, we should have liked to have seen the
sume immunity claimed ior Ireland, let the chance

of obtaining it be ever so small. oe oe eT
We have often had occasion to contrast tne Di
very of the Tories in attacking the rights of ie
people with the inferior spirit of Reformers|in : Li
proposals to protect and extend them. e eif

of this disparity of vigour ia the two parties ae
ultimately be to impair the| Reform Act] and the

other charters and defences © popular power.

waned AR ai ntore ie firthor

The Irish Registration Dill OF Dabs tse. ee
its Tory rival by the absence of

distinguished from 1t ; :
all those monstrous innovations of notices, appeals,

and costs, which adorn and so well become the
latter. The framers of the Ministerial Buil have
wisely abstained front wantonly altering established
forms, and from violently creating new jurisdictions.
They vest the powers of revision in the assistant-
distinctly admitted by Lord Stanley himself. As
they do not propose to drag the entire constituency
every year into court, still less do they enact such
an enormity as to superadd a suit at the assizes to

the suit at quarter sessions, subjecting every elector
to a litigation of his rights twice in the twelvemonth,
at the hazard of costs, even with a decision of the

registering barrister in his favour.

A tangs ie ee ee oy he
The Tory Bil gives an appellate jurisdiction to
the Judges, in order to bring the Tory construction
of the law on the test of value to bear upon the
trish constituencies, and thus defeat the unques-
tionable design of the Reform Act. The Tories
propose by one and the same measure to damave the
popular interest and tarnish the judicial character.
'No other instruments but the chief Judges of the
land will serve them in their assaults upoa the
franchise. . On the other side, the expediency of a
court of appeal is not denied, and a separate bill
specially constituting such a jurisdiction accom-
panies that which provides for the revision of the
registries. We rejoice that the tribunal is not to be
composed of the Judges, and this upon higher
erounds than any consideration of party interest.
The same Bil includes a declaration of the iaw
on the point of value rendered indispensable by the
dissensions of the Irish judicial authorities of all de-
grees upon that vexed question. The declaration con-
forms to the. undoubted intentions of the authors of
the Reform Act, manifested not only by their
statements at the time, but by the provisions and
lancuage of that measure. |
Lord Stanley repeated on Thursday night the
hypocritical pretence that his Bill deals with Regis-
tration only, and abstains religiously from the
franchise. In reply to Sir Denham Norreys, his
Lordship said—

“ He not only objected to the motion, but, waiving that
objection, he also objected to the time when it was sought
to introduce it; and the intention to add it to the present
bill, because if there was one thing more than another which
was understood during the progress of the bill, it was that
at dealt with registration only; but that every question
affecting the franchise was excluded, as a matter which
miyht tend to prevent its passing.”
Not to speak of the drift of the entire measure,
what is the meaning of the appeal against the fran-
chise given to the Jud ges, if it Is Tot to eut the
franchise down to the tee standard ? This we are
told is “dealing with Registration only!” The
only difference between Sir Denham Norreys and
Lord Stanley is that the former seeks to carry his
poiat openly and frankly, the latter obliquely and by
guile, after the serpentine fashion of the first Tory.
- The truth is, we are well assured, that the main
object of the Tory Bill is to garble the 10é. franchise
by the operation of this appeal to the ermined pil-

lars of that party. It is as much a 10. freehold-
disfranchisement-Bill as the 16th Geo. [IV was a

40s. freehold-disfranchisement-Biil, Thus Lord
Stanley’s true character is that of a Repealer of the
Irish Reform Act, and we may be sure he has just
as little bowels of compassion for the English. In
meditating this blow to one of the greatest measures
of Earl] Grey’s Government, of which his Lordship
“was a member, it is not, however, to be supposed
that he is guilty of the Titan-like enormity of de-
stroying bis own offspring. Lord Stanley’s aims
are “ steep’? without being “ Titan-like :” the worst
parts of the Irish Reform Act are peculiarly his own,
and he now merely proposes to render its illiberal
features more iiliberal, and to widen the gaps and
chasms which he left in it himself to spoil its effi-
cient working.
We understand that it is the intention of Govern-
ment to offer no further opposition to going inte
committee on Lord Stanley’s Bill, and that it will
contest, and divide on, the very first clause. This

will be a pitched battle, and the result must be
decisive.

