THE PREPARATIONS FOR WAR iN
CHINA,

The Chinese seem inclined to be very accommo-
dating enemies. Their presumption is one of our
best allies. The apprehension was that-they would
avoid battle, and that our expedition would be una-
ble to make any impression, having no point of
resistance on which to operate in so extensive a
country. But, instead of this policy, the Chinese
have the infatuation of thinking to oppose our expe-
dition with ships built for merchant service and
turned, for the nonce, into men-of-war. This is
merely presenting something for us to knock to
pieccs or to capture. It is furnishing us with the
subject-matter for showing our superiority.

The Chinese, notwithstanding their ignorance,
heve discerned and acknowledged the superiority ot
European ships to their clumsy junks; but they
have not the skill to perceive that there is even a
greater difference between a man-ot-war and a mer-
chantman than between a merchantman and a junk.
How will the sages at Pekin reconcile the use of
the foreign ships and barbarian armament with the

maxim s0 lately proclaimed by the Emperor, that
the foundations of the empire were archery and

horsemanship ?
‘Tsang Wangyen, in his memorial to the Grand

Military Council, confesses his conviction that to
compete with us at sea is beyond the strength of
the Celestial Empire, as our ships are large and
strong, and we handle our great guns both quick
and well, and are accustomed to the ocean; but,
though sensible so far in his view of the compa.
rison of forces, he proposes a pian of operatians by
land and water which is fully equal in absurdity to
that which we have alluded to.
“TJ find that in the different little islets adjoining our
coasts, there are places where fresh water may be procured ;
we onzht, therefore, to dispatch officers and soldiers to such
parts, that hemg so guarded, foreigners may no longer be
able to land and draw water. Further, the common people
who inhabit the villazes by the sea-Side ought all to be
drilled dnd formed into 2 sort of militia, in order that they
may he able to defend their different parts of the country ;
and should any foreigners attempt to land, let the people sally

forth to beat them back ; and if any one (of ours) is dis
covered to hold clandestine communication with the enemy,
let his crime straizhtway be punished with the utmost rigour.
Not only in the single province of Kwangtong ought such
measures to be taken, but the same precautions shouid be
secretly enforced in all those provinces which border on the
sea. ‘The sopplies being thus eat off entirely from the
Yoreizners, and they, finding it impossible to obtain wood or
water any longer, will most undoubtedly repent of their
crimes, and, drooping their heads, submissively await our
sentence, But supposing that these foreigners do not yet
submit, that they still keep locking about them, and dave
contumaciously to offer resistance; as these people rely oa
their ships being large and strong, as they handie their great
enns both quick and well, and as they are accustomed to the
vast ocean, f fear, under these circumstances, that were our
cruisers to proceed to catch and slaughter them on the high
seas, such were an undertaking beyond our strength. But
who is ignorant of the fact? These foreigners being crafty
and fraudulent, tierce and overbearing, despising the laws of
the land, end nvt brooking limit or restraint, the soldiery and
people of Kwangtung have fora long time cherished towards
them a violent avimosity, and every man burns with impa-
tience to give vent to it. It is only hecause the successive
viceroys an¢ fuoyuens, being unwilling to do anything that
might light the torch of war, have jor a long time rigorously
held in our people and not allowed them to give it a trial,
that the Kwangtungmen have kept their patience till the pre+
sent day.

a ae amt >a ~~ iia ee eee ee
* My humbie idea of the matter then is this: as we have

hitherto appeared as hosts and they es guests 5 as we are on
shore and they are afloat, it does not seem necessary to me
under these cireumstances to send our cruisers a long way
aut to sea to give battle te them; but as the intercourse of
the said foreiyners is cut off, and they being but scantily
supplied with necessaries, the pressure of their sufferings
will not allow them to remain a Jong time anchored in the
outer ocean, they must of necessity again enter one inner
waters, and ramble and spy out as before. Now I would
stil] forther entice them to come in by means of our cruisers,
and in the meantime I would call ont and get ready several
hundreds of the people living on the sea coast: of those who
are the stontest and the bravest, and the best swimmers and
divers, would cause them at night to divide znto groups, to go
diving straight on board the foreign ships, og taking the
said foreigners unawares, massacre every individual among
them. Or I would fit up several hundreds of fire-ships
hetorehand, and cause the most séilfial swimmers aad divers
to go on board of them. These should take advantage of
the wind and let the fire-ships yo, and close in the wake of
these should come our armed cruisers, But, before going
into action, } would proclaim to all the soldiers aad people
that he or they who should be able to take a foreign ship,
the entire ship and cargo should be given them for en-
couragement 3 and this being made known, every coe wonld
be more eazer than the other in pressing forward 1o the cap-
tures and what stay, I ask, would these rascally foreigners
have to cling to any longer? Would not their hearts, on the
contrary, die within them for fear 2”
We think not. Tsang Wangyen would do what
the Chinese have done before—catch a Tartar.
Diving for British men-of-war would not succeed,
and the divers would find it more judicicus to remain
at the bottom of the river. Such a scheme for the
massacre of their enemies shows the amiable simpli-
city of the much-lauded flowery people. They would
cut throats on the grandest scale if they did but
know how to set about it.

Tsang Wangyen arguesfor the utter extermina-
tion of all foreigners, without even an exception in
favour of our brother Jonathan,

He says—
“{n my humble opinion, then, the very head or chief
secret of our plan lies in shutting the ports. No matter

what country these foreign ships may come from, do not let
a single one of them hold commerciai intercourse with us.”
He thinks, however, that there is such virtue in
Massacre that even the knowledge that there is a
plan for one may have so salutary an effect on the
minds of barbarians as to render us amenable, and to
terrify us into a safe state for a Inmited intercourse.

Only let a plan be laid for a geaeral massacre, and these
said fureizners cannot but fear and tremble, and come to
implore us. Afterwards, if we find that they can witha
sincere and contrite heart repent them of their crimes, then
a memorial may be addressed to your sacred Majesty, praying
that, out of the abundance of your heavenly goudness, you
will again permit them to renew their commercial: inter-
course. Bot eyen then a limit must be put to the export of
tea, rhubarb, and such commodities, and they must on ne
accouat be permitted to exceed the prescribed bounds,
This is what I call keeping a strong hold upon them;
literally the plan of the nippers.”

_ it remains to be seen which side is to be caught
in the nippers.
