“VESTIGES OF THE NATURAL . HISTORY | ¢
OF CREATION”’—AVOWED INFIDELITY. |<
— (
(FROM THE IRIs ADVOCATE.) 1
We have certainly never read such e work as the |
volume now before us, and bearing the above title ; |;
it embraces a range of subjects, perhaps never before | |
attempted to be compressed into one volume ; asit |
presumes to present to the eye of the reader in 400 |.
octavo pages, the science of every department of in- |
animate and animate creation, It ins with the |
first moment—when the Supreme Ruler of the world
struck the first stroke iu the construction of nature,
and then accompanies the Creator, with the fami-
liarity of a companion, all along through geology,
mineralogy, fossil botany, marine aud terrestrial zoo-
logy, and mounting up through sil the ineect and-}
animal tribes, finishes ie tour of creation in the hu-
man mind ; here be pauses and divides the mens hu-
mana into several parts, and accounts for each act of
the understanding and the will by a graduated scale
of instinct, and then tries to prove that human action
is reguleted by sometbing like a moral thermometer ;
the human will rising or falling according to the mo-
ral temperature by which man is surrounded. We
aguin repeat, that we have never in all our experience
real such a volume as this—assuming, as the author
does, an acquaintance with every department of phy-
i sical. science, talking in a@ style of learned supre-

macy, and at the same time betraying a palpable ig-
norance of the very elements of the sciences on which
he descants with such a silly solemnity ; most cere
tainly, our auther hus never read the very school-boy
lesaons of conic sections, or the mechanics of central
forces, which may be called the very bolts and serews
and moving power of creation ; most assuredly he has
never studied, ever. the mere essentials of philosophi-
eal chemistry ; the entire amount of his ecientifie
acquisements may be fairly calculated to consist iv
hearing some popular lectures on botany and geology
—but when he arrives at the subject of the human
mind, it fe painful and yet amusing to hear him
«nichname” almost every term of inoral philosophy ;
and this deficiency clearly arising from sheer igno-
rance of logic aud ethics, But we might laugh a
this silliness of our author; and think (ns the Zdin-
burgh Review has it) that he was a bourding school
girl, if he or she did not in the end introduce an au-
dacious infidelity, a palpable deisin—attempted to be
founded on science—of whieh no modern production

oy ee te ee
The omission of the Infidel Part ee ee
the vaious reviewers on the subject, has imposed on
us the necessity of discussing at large, the gross infi-
delity of the present publication before us, and forti-

ing the public mind against the doctrines sought to

ineuleated through the ignorant and wicked distor-
tion of those very departments of science, which go
to support religion by a palpable and infallible testic |
mony ; an additional rensun weighs with us, namely,
the work has gone through five editions in a few
months; a fact, clearly proving the public rage for
startling novelties ; again, the author of this work is
just the kind of person who invariably writes at Chrise
tianity, under the cover of a misunderstood science ;
sand hence, as we have now fairly before us, @ perfect
specimen of a modern scientific infidel, who presumes
to great learning, we are much mistaken if we shall
not very soon convince our christian readers of the
base counterfeit knowledge, and empty ieprers
which invariably belong to this modern of phi-
losophical theologians. ar

Although the author commences tls om 1.
tronomy and ends in Metaphysics, we shall take leave
to reverse this order; anc by presenting to eur read-
ers his ideas on religion, they will be enabled better
to understand the motives which influenced him in’
the publication of his incomprehensible inventions in
science. We shall therefore proceed at once to dis
euse his metapitysical svetem of man’snatore.
In page 240, he writes thas,” what nes Ce) |
tended to take mind, in the eyes of the learned and
unlearned out of the range of nature is, its apparent
irregular and wayward cberacter. tow ifferent
the manifestations in different beings! how unstable
in all! at one time so calm, at another so wild and
impulsive ; it seemed impossible that gaything so sub-
tle and aberrant could be part of a system, the main
features of which are mary and precision. But
the irregularity of mental phenomena is only in a

5 When we give up the individual and take
the mass, we find as much uniformity of resalt, as in
any othar class of natural phenomena. irregu-
larity is exactly of the same kind as that of the wea- |
ther. No man can say what may be the weather of
toemorrow ; but the quantity ot rain which falls in
any particular pisos, tes any five years, is precisely
the same as the quantity thet fails in any other five
years in ths same place. Thus, whilst it is im possible
| to predict of any one Frenchman, that during next
| year he will commit a crime, it is _ certain that
| about one in every six hundred and firty of the French

people will do so, because in ee years the propor-
| tion has been in that amount, &e. _—.. ° :
This statistical reguiation 1 moral alairs of law
blishes their being under the presidency of law.—
Man is seen to be enigma only as en individual ; in
the mass he is a MATHEMATICAL problem. itis
hardly necessary to say, much less to argue, that
MENTAL ACTION (that is, morality) being proved to
be under law, at once into the eategory of na-
tural things, \ts old metaphysical character vanishes |
in a moment, and the distinction usuully drawn be-
tween PHYSICAL AND MORAL is .
view agrees with what all observation teaches, that
mental phenomena (morality) flow directly from the
brain, They are seen to be de on
constituted and naturally conditional oncaxs, and
thus OBEDIENT, LIKE ALL OTHER ORGANIC phend=

| ment to law.”
On reading the above extract, how can Silly
Christian, or we should/ say, ety buinan being, re-
strain his withering contempt oF boiling indignation,
at seeing the cool, uublushing impudence wit which
this maniac assures his readers that the difference
between morality and immorality [moral irregula-
rity] is of the ‘same kind” as the difference in “the
weather! !” that is to say, morality und profligacy
are founded on “the same kind” of a law as the
causes of storm or snow !! and the moral man differs
from the crime-stained wretch ouly by the ‘‘same”
difference that exists between a fog, aud a shower of
rain !
Hence also the good father, or the good husband,
or the good son, are governed by the “ same laws”
in their good and moral conduct, as the law which
makes their beard grow ! that is, the heat of the
weather ! and, of course, to kill @ parent, or kill a
bishop, is the result of * the same kind” of a law!
and, moreoyer, of as invariable and necessary a law |
as the laws of March wind and weter spouts! And,
moreover, these murders (moral irregularities)
must mecessarily happen, because there is a necessa-
ry law to produce them, and they are pert ofa
tem formed for the pur ; and hence to maim,
poieon, mutilate, kill, and murder, differs from the
contrary acts, only by the same difference that the
darkness of night ‘iffers from the ois that is,
the difference of the weather! Why, old Manicheus,
with his good evil and principle, and Satan showing
the whole world from the top of one mountain, were
pigmies in devilment, compared with our au thor,
who annihilates all moral relaiions, and reduces the
ten commandments (the old system of natural law) to
agrand principle of electricity and condensation !
and makes the direction of the winds and the aurora
borealis be the great atmospherical agents for the
— of the natural phenomena called_mora-

(i

fyi!
Except that we are beginning to laugh at this man
or school girl, or whatever else the author is, we
should run mad at this insane }jibbering, and
think the world had gone astray into mythology, for
permitting this book to arrive ata fifth edition ; bat
we must proceed with our philosopher! !—
Hear him in page 347 .—** The Drain of the yerte~
brata is merely an expansion of the anterior part of
the ganglia of the articulata, or these ganglia may be

arded as the rudiment of the brain, the superior
organ thus appearing as only a further developement
of the inferior. There are many facts to prove that
the action of this apparatus is of an electricnature,&e.
The brain of a newly killed animal being taken out
and replaced by a substance which produces electric
action, the operation of digestion which was inter-
rupted by the death of the apimal, was
tnings that the brnin in one of its powers 13 identi- |
eal with the gaivanie battery. Nor is thisa sage d

etartling idea, when we reflect that electricity is al-

Most a0 metaphysical as ever mind was supposed to
be.| It is a thing perfectly weightless, intangible, and |
yet electricity is areal thing, an actual existence in

nature, as witness the effects of light and heat observe |
the angle of ineidence in reflection, as exactly as does”
astone thrown obliquely against a wall; so mental

action (morality) may imponderable, intangible,
and yet—-a—real existence, aud ruled by the Eternal

‘through his laws.”’
Our philosopher is beginning to make us Jaugh | |
oughtright, and hence we moro Be the discussion of
the last monstrous quotations in good humour. He

hesinvented, as our readers may see, a new grand
‘system of mental. “a tas,” moved by electric
action ; and the & ander the influence of thie
electric action PRopUCES morality or-immorality on
the sauB iple asa mill grinds barley and outs!
Bat the id effort of génius at which he is driv-
ing, in this prodigious plan of reducing morality to
amechenical provess, is far surpassed hy the brilliant
idea which he introduces of making mental aetion
(morality) texponcerable, as electricity ! and yet hav-
as an existence as electricity; so that he has,

at length, by the deepest research! into anatomy
and natural philosopay, reduced mental action (mo-
rality) towregular table of “ayoirdupois!” and has
discovered that lmman crime and human perfection
are électric efforts like our common thunder storms !
and he has moreover found that the natural fluid of
of morality, so produced in the mind, has no appre-
cieble weight ; so that any amount of mortal guilt in
this new grand system, will not weigh even one
penny weight or bariey corn, which he views @ most
strange fact, considering that the moral fluid is a real
natural existence, and us such ought to be subject to
the laws of gravitation! ! It is to be hoped, how-
ever, that in the next edition he wili favour the world
with the ponderability of morality, and solve the im-
portant question, namely—‘‘how many false oaths
would break a cumel’s back?” He is the very man
of all the world to solve the question. |
But, after ali, this author furnishes an instance of
most melancholy reflection. In the entire range of
mental aberration there has uever appeared anythin:
so multitudinously extravagant or abs::rJ as bis m
theory ; and heis so egregiously iguorant of even the
common terme of chemistry, he uses the word ‘‘heat”
instead of ‘‘ealoric; and “the angle ot iacidence,in
reflection, as exactlyas a stone thrown against a
WALL,” is a sentence that contains more ignorance of

metrical phrase and mechanieal principle, than
could be well conceived to be compressed into such a
small space. But we must proceed to the grand cli-
max of our author’s electrical system of morality :—

6 5 mental action be electric, the proverbial quick-
nese of — is, the quickness of the trans-
mission of the sensation and will—may be presumed
to have been brought to anexact measurement. The
speed of light has long been known to he about
192,000 miles in a second ; and experiment has shown
that the electric agent travels at the same rate, thus
shewinga likelihood that one law rulca all the im-
——— bodies. Mental action may accordingly

presumed to have a rapidity equal to 192,000
miles in a second—a rate evidently far beyond what
is necessary to make the design and execution of any
of our ordinary muscular movements apparently
Sdentical in point cftime—wh.ich they are.”

” Phe extravagauceof one principle always ‘eads to
the extravagance of all the numerous consequences
that hang upun it; and hence, to all the absurdities
that have gone before on this one point of ‘mental
netion” we find the concluding phenomenon Ciscover-
ed by our philosopher far surpassing anv wild revery
that bes ever entered the head of aay human being
before the golden age of our author. Whatabeurdity
ean equal the idea that mental action (morality) has
a given rate of velocity, equal to light ; so thut from
his theory ove man miay be said to kill another at the
rate of 192,000 miles ina second! ‘This is the grand
climax of the system, and it surpasses all we have
ever coneeived before.
We have, indeed, often heard of ™ spectacies”
being equal toa 500 horse power ; but up to this
time we have neverheard of a man “ cursing,” for
instance, at the rate of 192,000 miles in a second !—
This discovery is evtirely to be attributed to the ex-
elusive _—_ of our philosopher.

But the conclusion of his work is more than de-
plorable, His philosophical logic consists in premises
of madness conclusions of infidelity. It is de-
plorable, and it is more than deplorable, te see this
mad work go through five editions in Great Britain.
It proves the morbid appetite of Great Britain on re-
ligions i That appetite is diseased, and can
only be cured by the food of true faith and grace.

But let us hear our suthor’s profession of faith,

page 407 :-— o£

It may BR that—while we are committed tO tuke |
our chance in @ natural system of undeviating ope-
ration, and are left with apparent ruthlessness, to en-
dure the eonsequenees of every collision into which |
we knowingly or unknowingly come with each of its |
ir lari there is a system of mercy and grace

behind the sereen of nature, towards which we stand |
in a peculiar class of relations. . . . For the ex- |

‘istence of such a system, the actual conetitution of na-
‘tare is a*powerful argument. The reasoning may |
— thus: the system of nature assures us that
nevolence is a aking principle in the divine mind.
But that system is, at the same time, deficient in a
means of making this henevolence of invariable ope-
ration. To reconcile this to the character of the Deity
it is necessary to suppose that the present system Is
but part of a whole—a stage in a great progress—and '
that the redrexs is im reserve. Another arguinent |
here oecurs : theeconomy of nature, beautifully ar- |
| ranged as it ix, does not sutisfy even man’s idea of |
| what might be; . . . but the mundane economy |
might be very well as a portion of some greater phe- |
nomenon, the rest of which was yet(to-be-evolved.— |
Oar system, therefore, though it muy, at first, appear |
at variance hh other doctrines in esteem amongst |
mankind, tends to come into harmony with them. . . |
‘6 J woald say, in conclusion, that even where the |
two above arguments may fail of effect, there may be |
yeta raiTH derived from this view of nature suffice |
cient to sustain ue, under all sense of the imperfect |

happiness, calamities, woes, and pains of this sphere |
of being. «© «© - Surely, in sacha faith ;
we may well rest at ease. oe. 8.8 =
Thinking of all the contingencies of this world, as to

be in time melted into, or lost in some greater cys- !
tem, to whieh the present is only subsidiary, let
us wait with patience, and be of good cheer.” {

No one can read the above deplorable sentiments |

‘ withoat seeing the open Deism of this unfortunate |
writer ; he writes like a man who never heard of |
Christienity—who tries to reason himself into the |
ideathat there may be some systein besides nature,

whore grace and mercy exist; but which system (if

such there be) is§ still part of nature—an advanced
natural principle ; end how melancholy to hear him |
eay that the faith derived from nature is sufficient for
man—that he may be well at ease inthis system, and

that hereafter he may perhaps seea greater system in

eternity.
We need not say one word more on the_met pnysi-
eal talent of our philosopher—he speaks for himeelf.
In our next review we shal! take him on his astrono-
mical acquirementa, where he figures away in the
ekies like a celestial rope-dancer, but from which we
hope to ‘take him down, to the amusement of our
readers, and convince the public that our astronomer
has never condescended to read the vulgar studies
called geometry, trigonometry, conic sections, me-
chanics, optics, &e., &e., but, with one aspiring
bound, has jumped into the milky way, and standing
there in something of the character ofa railroad over-
seer, he has ordered suns and moons, and curves, and
seas and lands, and fish, and elephants, to be con-
‘structed and made, and to move and walk, on one
| grand principle of ‘‘ electric action.” And moreover,
we do not intend to let this gentleman out of our
hands for some time—not that we are anxious to be
| particularly severe on him, but that in future, when
any similar philosopher writes with bis real name to
| his book, he may know that we are assisted by a
| corps of six writers, and thatifhe dare to write one
| word against the faith we profess, or the church to

whieh we belong, or the clergy whom we revere, we
| shell meet bim in his title page, and dispute every
\word he may utter against our principles, or our
creed, Yu conclusion, we have 4 word to say to ithe ;
h Review on this subject, which we shall
make kuown in due time, and shall convince the re-
viewer that he is not so scientific or historical as he
vainly faucies himself to be, in his allusions to Pe-

pery.
