PROFESSOR . NICHOL. -
‘We publish the following letter readily—and, mn doing 5
a0, we must take blame to ourselves for a very serious | ¥
fault. We had attributed to Professor NicHor the | §
authorship of an Atheistical volume, now in general
circulation, called “ Vestiges of the Creation.” For
this assertion of ours, we had what we deemed good
authority, and, we may add, that in circles which take
an interest in such subjects, the paternity of the book |!
was generally attributed to this gentleman, We can-
‘pot express too much regret for a wrong thus inad- | «
vertently committed by THE Post. The only, but the |
most decisive way in which it can be remedied in by the |

following letter :

To THE EDITOR OF THE DUBLIN BVENING POST.
15th May, 1845.

Sin—I have just seen an article in your paper of 13th
J, referring to me as the ised author of the * Ves-
fise’_of the Nataral Hislory of Creation,” and containing
Ustnin grave charges as to the tendency of the work in
rrcation’ Entirely avoiding any expression of opinion as to
The justice or injustice of these charges, and highly desirous
wet d have laid upon me the task of dealing with them, T beg
Qostate in this formal and precise manner, that I'am not the

author of that volume.—I have the honour to be, Sir, your
J.P. NicHo.

obedient servant,
‘The letter has the Cork Post mark, where, we

learn, Professor Nicuo is now delivering course
of lectures. In the Cork Reporter of Thureday there
ja a very interesting sketch of © lecture delivered
by Doctor NicHoL, which concludes in the following

| terms :-—

terms
Dr. Nichol said he was most anxious that no misunder
standing should here exist, because thus alone could the eng
on of doubts and disagreeable feelings be prevented.
Sind particularly, be had a strong i
stood. Inthe Dublin Evening Post of yesterday his name
had been formally connected with charges of Atheism or
ne oe ean all
‘Materialism, on the ground of an assertion that he was the
author of the " Weatiged of the (Natural of Crea
tion.” He wonld especially guard against being suppored to
pronounce an opinion on that occasion as to the intentions of,
that book ; but, ashe wished to stand before his country-
men as under the responsibility accruing from his own
thoughts ard writings, he considered it right to state ‘that he

not the author of the volume in question. The eloquent
lecturer concluded by one of those impressive reflections
which is s0 much the characteristic of his mind, and wos
loudly cheered.

Our friend, the Reporter, has some remarks in ano-
ther part of his journal, taking us to task for the un-
witting injury we may have inflicted—(though we do
not think that can be very serious)—to which, as we
feel in some degree obnoxious to the imputation, we need
not offer any answer. But it will be found, we imagine,
that our original inadvertence will rather have served
Doctor NicHot in its results than injured him. He has
relieved himself altogether from what—pace philoso-
phorum—we cousider a deep odium.

