ELECTION NEWS.

TowER HaMLETS.—The Tories in the borough of
the Tower Hamlets are taking measures to contest the
next election of a member of Parliament. . On Monday
evening last the members of a Tory Association in the
district met far the purpose of signing a requisition to Mr
G. Robinson to come forward as a candidate for the repre-
sentation of the borough whenever 2 vacancy shall occur.

LEwEs.—The friends of Liberal principles will learn
with satisfaction that the Hon. H. O. Trevor has consented
to stand for the borough of Lewes, en the vacancy occa-
sioned by the death of Sir Charles R. Blunt. General
Trevor is brother to Lord Dacre, and is intimately con-
nected with Sussex, living within a few miles of Lewes,
to the inhabitants of which he is endeared, as well by the
highest personal qualities as by the assistance he has
afforded to the Liberal interest in Sussex.

Heuston.—-Mr Basset stands for Helston, as Whig
candidate, in the place of Lerd Cantilupe, who has taken
the Chiltern Hundreds, and is in the field as Tory candi-
date for Lewes.
| East SUF¥YOLE.~ Let an election take piace when It
may, a strenuous effort. will he made to wrest the represen-
tation of East Suffulk from the hands of the Tories. Two
candidates in the Reform interest will appear in the field,
ove of whom is Mr Shafta Adair, who, with Mr Garden,
‘canvassed the constituency at the last general election, and
retired without going to the poll, in consequence of coming
forward at too late an howr. ' An active canvass by the new
candidates and their friends, and a unity of purpose ameng
the independent electors, will, we have no doubt, prove
that the eastern portion of this county, at least, must not
‘be included in the appellation of “ Silly Suffolk ;” and
that the election of one Radical Reformer, |if nut two, will
be secured.— Ipswich Ex‘press.—Mr Adair has since issued
| an excellent address to the electors, in which he says, ** The
favourable state of the registration, and the flattering re-
| quest of an influential portion of the Liberal party, have
induced me to accede to their wishes, and to declare my-
self a candidate for your suffrages on the oceasion of the
next dissolution of Parliament. The experience of the
fourth session, which is elapsing since I last addressed you,
has in no respect aliered my opinions on the subjects
which were then, and still are, the objects of an anxious
public investigation. 1 see the asserters or Civit and rer
gious liberty maintaining a protracted struggle with their
antagonists 5 the beneficent intention of the

Reforn| Act]
virtually defeated 5 the inestimable boon of national educa-
tion withheld, for a time; and, above all, the events of
every passing day impress upor me, more forcibly than |
those of the preceding, the urgent necessity of providing
by legislative enactment for ihe effectual discharge of one
of the highest duties which a member of a freestate can be

called upon to perform towards his country.”
= — . = |

ae oe oe eee
Rre.- The Liberals of Hye recently assembseG I a |
multitude to avow their support of liberal principles, and to
give a death-blaw to Toryism in the borough, Nearly |
a dined at an several inns. On ‘‘ Mr Elphinstone and
the Reformers of Hastings” being given at the George, |
Mr Elphinstone, in returning thanks, read a curious docu~
ment bearing date 1758, being a compact entered into be
tween the Lamb family and others to have and to hold the
fee simple of the borough in their hands. He might be

asked why he as a Radical was found at dinner in the com-

pany of those who professed to support the present Minis-
try? He would answer, that though the Government of

the day did not advance so fast as he could desire
same time he saw in them the genuine germs of
which needed but the inflyence of the people ta warm them
frito’ existeyce, and therefore hé strprorted the present
Government.

