REVIEW OF NEW BOOKS.

Explanations : a Sequel to “Vestiyes of the Natural Histor

of Creation.” By the Author of that Work. Churchill.

London, 1845.
So many strong objections had been arrayed against the Vestiges
of Creation, that the author was called upon to elucidate and
reinforce his argument, or abandon the ground he had taken up.
The more candid and equitable of his judges—those who were
disposed to try him upon the merits, and independently test the
claims of his inquiry, as in fairness it ought to be, as strictly a
scientific speculation, regardless of any constructive bearings it
might have on current opinions or prejudices—could not arrive at
any more favourable conclusion than that he had failed to
establish his hypotheses. Indeed this was the only verdict that
could be safely delivered in. ‘lhe impugners of the work were
in the same helpless predicament as its author, who had, how-
ever, more venturously presumed to unravel unsearchable
mysteries, concerning which, in the existing state of science,
men can only conjecture, wonder, and adore, utterly unabie to
affirm or deny aught respecting them. What, for instance, with
the remotest semblance of certainty, can be predicated of the
stellar orbs? Is it not idle almost to speculate on the impene-

Se ge ee ee

trable secret of their origin when their very existence is unde-
finable—when their end, their glittering discs, and all but im-
measurable distances are wholly unapproachable? Nor hardly
less beyond our grasp is the commencement of organic existences.
We do pride ourselves on recent advances to the sources of”
entity ; we tear up the dead, we torture the living, and sedulously
chronicle every beat of the heart aud vibration of the brain to
slake an insatiable curiosity, yet how unsatisfactory our reach
towards the hidden springs of life—how limited our attainments,
when the creation of a single blade of grass, the humblest worm,

& poor bectle, or gadfly, would baffle the utmost structural skil}

of the greatest philosopher! Into the fathomless depths of our
own globe we have also essayed to penctrate. Poor beings! of
three score and ten, whose utmost historical span extends only
to some thousands of years, have sought to trammel up the terrene
vicissitudes of millions of ages anterior to their own existence !

Does not this savour of a vain research, or of a laudable thirst
for knowledg

Over all these dark and solemn inscrutabilities, however, the
Vestiges undcrtook to throw a glare of light, to reveal their be-
ginning, progression, order, relations, and law of development. Ale
thongh daring in aim, the attempt was not to be wholly deprecated.
While religious freedom had been secured, philosophy had become
timid, official, and timeserving; retentive as FoNTENELLE of
the truths within its grasp, and iearful to give utterance to aught
that might disturb the stillness of the temple, the lecture-room,
or fashionable auditory. Modern teachers had been uscd so
long to the Baconian go-cart, that they had become as apprehen-
sive of losing the inductive clue as the PALINuRusgs of old of
the sight of the directing shore, But the time had arrived when
it seemed expedient to relax the strictness uf the investigative
tule, and atiord scope for a more systematic, if not speculative
research. Science had made great acquisitions, and it seemed
desirable, if only for experiment sake, to see what kind of
FrankEnsrein would result from the architectural union of her
scattered limbs. This furmed the scope of the Vestiges of Crea-
= ly ns, a" ae
tion; novelties were not propounded, only a portentous skeleton
raised from the truths physical astronomy, geology, chemistry,
physiology, and natural history had established. Does the
author recoil from his work ? 0; these Explanations attest
that he is steadfast in the worship of the idol of his brain.
He retracts nothing, he re-asserts, elucidates, and often dexte-
rously turns the weapous of the most formidable and orthodox of
his adversarics against them, by showing from their writings that
they had, in detail at least, acquiesced in the truths that they
now, in a generalised form, seek to controvert and repudiate. So
much adroitness and pertinacity in the author can hardly fail to
provoke resistance, if not asperity, despite of the imperturbable
temper in which he maintains the combat. The learned have
been disturbed in their daily routine, by the discharge from an
unknown hand, of a magsive pyrites, that has diffused as much
consternation among the herd of modish eclocutionists, cellege
tutors, and chimpanzce professors, as Jove’s ligneous projectiie
among the lieges of the standing pool. Lor this commotion we
have, on a former occasion, conceded that there existed valid
reasons, and we hasten to see the way in which they have been
met in the rejoinder before us ; contenting ourselves, as we needs
must, by briefly noticing some of the salient points of the con-
troversy.
First of the Nebular Hypothesis. The chicf objection to this.
theory is, that the existence of ncbulous matter in the heavens is.
disproved by the discoverics made by the telescope of the Earb
of Rosse. By the reach of this wondrous tube, masses of light,.
rendered apparently nebulous by their vast distance, have been
resolved into clusters of stars, and thence the assumption seemed
unwarrantable that any luminous matter, different from the
solid bodies composing planetary systems existed in the
heavenly spaces. But to this the author replies, that there aze
two classes of nebule—one resolvable into constellations—
another comparatively near, that remains unaffected by
telescopic power, and that until this last description can be sepa-
rated, the nebular hypothesis is not disproved. It is thus brought
to an issue of facts, both as to the existence of nebula of this
latter kind, and the optical power to resolve them into distinct
stars.
But the author can hardly claim this negative success in grap-
pling with a second objection—namely, his assumed origin of
rotatory motion. According to him, a confluence of atoms round
a spherical centre of attraction, would cause the agglomerated
mass to revolve upon its axisin the manner of our earth. This
was denied by everybody the least acquainted with the laws of
motion; and thus did one of his imaginary solutions of a great
phenomenon of the universe fall dead to the ground. This he
now seems to concede, but in a sentence unintelligible to us, in
which an undoubted physical law is spoken of as only an
abstract truth (p. 20). He obviously still clings to his first mis-
taken inference, and calls to his aid Professor Nico, whom he
has also pressed into his service to help him over the last-men-
tioned difficulty by the Professor’s affirmation of a diversity of
nebulous clusters. But the Professor doesnot commit himself
to the extent of the author; his aqueous whirlpool 1s cited from
Herscuet, only in illustration, and correctly said to be pro-
duced by the unequal force of convergence of a fluid to acommon
centre. But the author’s nuclei, disposed in his notable “ fire-
mist,” did not act with unequal force on the ambient vapour,
and whose central convergence in consequence, would not pro-
duce rotation or motion of any kind. ‘This was the real matter
in question, the author was taken up on his own premises, and
the results he assumed to follow from them proved to be incon-
sistent with the unquestionable laws of gravitating matter.
He has gone over the geological portion of his subject with
much care, but if competent, it would be impossible within our
narrow limits to accompany him; nor could the discussion be
made either interesting or intelligible except to the scientific,
who have devoted attention to an extremely curious, but still
obscure and unsettled field of investigation. He has elaborately
cleared up many points, and successfully, we think, answered
some weighty objections, but we are not yet converts to his
theory of organic development. One passage we shall extract;
after adverting tu the facts established by powerful evidence, that
during the long term of the carth’s existence, strata of various
thickness were deposited in seas composed of matter worn away
from the previous rocks; that these strata by volcanic agency
were raised into continents, or projected into mountain chains,
and that sea and land have been constantly interchanging con-
ditions. He continues:—
“The remains and traces of plants and animals found in the succes-
sion of strata show that, while these operations were going on, the
earth gradually became the theatre of organic being, simple forms sp-
pearing first, and more complicated afterwards. 4 time when there
was no life is first seen. We then see life begin, and go on; but whole
ages elapsed befure man came to crown the work of nature.
This is a wonderful revelation to have come upon the men of our time,
and one which the philosophers of the days of Newton could never
have expected to be vouchsafed. Tle great fact established by it is,
that the organic creation, as we now see it, was not placed upon the
earth at once; it observed a procress. Now we can imagine the
Deity calling a young plant or animal into existence instantaneously ;
but we seethat he does not usually do so. The young plant and also
the young animal go through a series of conditions, advancing them
from a mere germto the fully developed repetition of the respective
parental forms. 8o, also, we can imagine Divine power evoking a
whole creation into being by one word; but we find that such had not
been his mode of working in that instance, for geology fully proves that
organic creation passed through a series of stages before the highest
vegetable and animal forms appeared. Here we have the first hint of
organic creation having arisen in the manner of natural order, The
analogy does not prove identity of causes, but it surely points very
broadly to natural order or law having been the mode of procedure in
both instances,”
To the allusion in the last sentence there can be no demur;
that there is ‘natural order or law’’ in creation who will con-
test? But it is the author’s law and the author’s order that are
in dispute—his transmutation of species, the higher classes
emerging from and partly annihilating the lower, under melio-
rated conditions of being. That the simpler form of organic life
should first appear; thatremains of invertebrated animals should
be first found; then, with these, fish, being the lowest of the
vertcbrated ; next, reptiles and birds, which occupy higher
grades; and finally, along with the rest, mammifers, the highest
of all—all this appears natural enough. How could it be other-
wise? When the earth was a slimy bed, what but the lowest
forms of life—the mollusca, and other soft animals, without bony
structure—could possibly live in or occupy it? During the car-
boniferous era, when the carth was enveloped in an atmosphere
of hydrogen, vegetation might thrive; but man, and animals
like him, dependent on vital air, could not exist ; nor are re-
mains of them found in this epoch of the globe’s vicissitudes,
All this is comprehensible. But the perplexing inquiry is, whence
did the successive grades of animals emerge? ‘That they could
not contemporancously exist; when the wiole earth was a shore-
less sea, and that animals cou!d not live is certain ; but were they
created in succession by the Divine fiat, or did they emerge, as
our author supposes and elaborately tries to prove, from the
humblest primitive forms, by an inscrutable law of progression—
evidenced, he contends, by geological facts—though by some his
facts are disputed—and certainly not confirmed by any animal
changes observable within the limits of human experience ?
There is another alternative offers, which would dispense both
with the author’s hypothesis and the need of successive organic
creations by aspecial Providence. Is it a geological fact, since
life began, that the earth has simudtaneously undergone through-
out its entire surface the revolutions assigned to it? May it not
always, from that period, have consisted, as it now does, of
water and dry land, alternately changing their sites, but always
apart, and allowing of the contemporary existence on some por-
tion of its surface of all the varicties of tribes ever found upon it?
The fossiliferous rocks that formed the primeval sea beds could
only be deposited by the abrasion from the anterior and higher
jocks. It has always appeared to us that this conjecture is
worthy of consideration, and, if found tenable, would reconcile
many perplexities.
Upon subjects so obscure, and to which the human intellect
has been only recently directed, it is not surprising that men of
science have not arrived at uniformity of conclusion. Unable to
reconcile phenomena with positive knowledge, there are names
of no mean repute who would reserve certain domains of creation
as the fields of special interventions. ‘To this class Dr. Wue-
WELL appears to belong, who assumes that ‘‘cvents not included
in the course of nature have formerly taken place.” In the
same way Professur Sepcwick, to account for the appearance of
certain animals, says, “‘ They were not called into being by any
law of nature, but by a power above nature.” He adds, “ they
were created by the hand of Gop, and adapted to the conditions
of the period.” To this the author of the Vestiges assents, with
the explanation (p. 134) that their existence was not the result
of a “special exertion of power to mcet special conditions,” but
of an antecedent and primitive law of development suited to the
new exigencies, and emanating from the Creator. This, he
contends, does not lower our estimate of the Divine character ;
and, in proof, cites Dr. DopprivGe, who cannot be suspected of
irreverence. “When we assert,” says the pious and amiable
author, “a perpetual Divine agency, we readily acknowledge
that matters are so contrived as not to need a Divine interposi-
tion in a different manner from that in which it had been con-
‘stantly exerted. And it must be evident that an unremitting
energy, displayed in such circumstances, greatly exalts our idea
of God, instead of depressing it; and, therefore, by the way, is
so much more likely to be true.” Against constructive infer-
ences it is urged, in the Eaplunations—
| ‘As to results which may flow from any particular view which
‘reason may show as the best supported, I must firmly protest against
any assumed title in an opponent to pronounce what these are, The
first object is to ascertain truth, No truth can be derogatory to the
presumed fountain of all truth. The derogation must lie in the erro-
neous construction which a weak human creature puts upon the
truth, And practically it is the true infidel state of mind which
prompts apprehension regarding any fact of nature, or any conclusion of
sound argument.”*
The writer then quotes Sir Joun Herscnes as having some
years ago announced views strictly conformable to those subse-
quently taken of organic creation in the Vestiges :-—

««* For my part,’ says Sir John, ‘1 cannot but think it an inadequate
conception of the Creator, to assume it as granted that his combina.
tions are exhausted upon any one of the theatres of their former exer-
cise, though, in this, as in all his other works, we are led, by all
analogy, to suppose that he operates through a series of intermediate |
causes, and that, in consequence, die urigination of fresh species, could |
it ever come under our cognizance, would be found to be u natural, in
contradistinction to a miraculous process,—although we perceive no in-|
dications of any process actually in progress which is likely to issue in |
such aresult. {n his address to the British Association at Cambridge, |
(1845), he said with respect to the author’s hypothsis of the first step
of organic creation—‘ The transition from an inanimate crystal to a
‘globule capable of such endless organic and intellectual development,
is as great a step—as unexplained a one—as unintelligible to us—and
in any sense of the word as miraculous, as the immediate creation and
introduction upon earth, of every species and every individual would
be!”
The Rev. Dr. Pye SmitH is next adduced :—

‘* «Our most deeply investigated views of the Divine Government,’
says he, ‘lead tothe conviction that it is exercised in the way of order,
‘or what we usually call law. God reigns according to immutable
principles, that is by law, in every part uf his kingdom—the mechanical,
the intellectual, and the moral ; and it appears to be most clearly a posi-
‘tion arising out of that fact, that a comprehensive germ which shall
necessarily evolve all future developments, downto the minutest atomic
movements, is a more suitable attribution to the Deity, than the idea of
a necessity fur irregular interferences,’ ”’

Lastly, the reviewer of the Vestiges in Blackwood’s Magazine,

who is understood to be a naturalist of distinguished ability,
expresses himself in an equally decided manner :—
“To reduce to a system the acts of creation, or the development of
the several forms of animal life, no more impeaches the authorship of
creation, than to trace the laws by which the world is upheld, and its
phenomena perpetually renewed. The presumption naturally rises in
the mind, that the same Great Being would adopt the same mode of
action in both cases....To a mind accustumed, as is every educated
mind, to regard the operations of Deity as essentially differing from the
limited, sudden, evanescent impulses of a human agent, it is distress-
ing to be compelled to picture to itself, the power of God as put forth
in any other manner than in those slow, mysterious, universal laws,
which have so plainly an eternity to work in; it pains the imagination to
be obliged to assimilate those operations, for a moment, to the brief
energy of a human will, or the manipulations of a human hand........
No, there is nothing atheistic, nothing irreligious, in the attempt to
‘conceive creation, as well as reproduction, carried on by universal
laws.’”’
- We have dwelt so much upon this matter because it is one in.
which popular feelings are likely to be most deeply interested.
‘We shall give the author, tov, the benefit of his Eaplanations on

another point, elucidating his former statement of the transmuta-

tion of a crop of oats into a crop of rye: —

© © Atthe request,’ says Dr. Lindley, ‘of the Marquis of Bristol,
‘the Reverend Lord Arthur Hervey, in the year 1843, sowed a handful
of oats, treated them in the manner recommended, by continually

‘stopping the flowering stems, and the produce, in 1844, has been for
the most part ears of a very slender barley, having much the appear.
ance of rye, with a little wheat, and some oats; samples of which are,
by the favour of Lord Bristol, now befure us.’ The learned writer then

adverts to the ‘extraordinary, but certain fact, that in orchidaceous

plants, forms just as different as wheat, barley, rye, and oats, have

been proved by the most rigorous evidence, to be accidental variations

of one common form, brought about nu one knows how, but before

our eyes, and rendered permanent by equally mysterious agency. Then

says Reason, if they occur in orchidaceons plants, why should they

not also occur in corn plants? for it is not likely that such vagaries will

be confined to one little group in the vegetabie kingdom; it is more

rational to believe them to be a partof the general system of creation.
++. »How can we be sure, that wheat, rye, oats, and barley, are not.
all accidental off-sets from some unsuspected species ?’ ’’ |
It may be so; but this would only prove that the “ unsus-
pected species” included greater varieties, not that a really de-
fined species was transmutable into another. But it is a point:
upon which no satisfactory result can be arrived at, since na.
turalists are not agreed in the classification of species, nor what
attributes constitute one.

The Broomfield experiment is again brought forward, as de-
cisive of the power to originate new life from inorganic elements.
‘It will be remembered that Mr. Weekes, of Sandwich, con-
tinued during three years to subject svlutions to electric action,
and invariably found insects produced in these instances, while
they as invariably failed to appear where the electric action was
not employed, but every other condition fulfilled. Ina letter to
the author of the Vestiges—two are inserted, one on the inde-
pendent generation of fungi—Mr. Weekes says—
* One hundred and sixty-six days from the commencement ofthe ex-.
periment—the first acari seen in connexion therewith, six in number
andnearly full-grown, were discovered on the outside of the open glass
vessel. On removing two pieces of card which had been laid over the
mouth of this vessel, several fine specimens were foand inhabiting the
under surfaces, and others completely developed and in active motion
here and there within the glass. Making my visit atan hour whena more
favourable light entered the room, swarms of acari were found on the
cards, about the glass tumbler, both within and without, and also
on the platform of the apparatus. At this identical hour Dr. J.
Black favoured me with a call, inspected the arrangements, and re-
ceived six living specimens of the acarus produced from solution in the
open vessel.”’
Specimens of the insect were sent to Paris, when they seta
whole conclave of philosophers a-laughing, because they were
found to contain ova. Other specimens were sent to London,
but there their fate was sealed by their being found to be, not a
new specics, but one then abundant in the country. For our-
selves we think the experiment not conclusive.” We adopt
Hume’s principle. All but universal experience having estab-
lished that life is €a ovo only, we must have a proportionate
body of counter evidence to establish a different mode of gene-
ration. At all events, Mr. Weekes’s protracted gestation of
166 days by his galvanic battery is not likely, in the existing
rage for despatch, to supersede the existing routine of repro-
duction. |
