DR. NICHOL’S ARCHITECTURE OF
The form of this admirable work is that of letters to a lady. Its
object is to popularize the stupendous wonders that have been
discovered in astronomy, (and chiefly by the elder Herscnet,)
during the present century ; and which, enveloped in dry or ex-
traneous matter, have hitherto remained buried amid “ the varied
and massive collections of our learned societies.” The subjects
of the work, are —the form of the existing universe, and the
firmaments of whieh it consists; the mechanism, or vital prin-
ciple of the stellar arrangements ; and the origin and probable
tiny of the present form of the material creation, In accom-
panying Dr. Nicnot through these three divisions of astronomy,
the reader will have impressed upon him the infinity of space;
tnd the eternity of time, if that can be called time which hints
no idea of a beginning, no prospect of an end. He will also be
to feel the stupendous magnitude of a universe — where

Planetary worlds are beyond sight and beneath regard; where the
Nearest suns—suns like ours,
Py ok Sa A te ee

“ The light and life

OF all this wondrous world we see "—

ate reckoned by millions; whilst millions upon millions of the
Temotest, blended together by-the incalculable distance, merely
Bive out a dim nebulous light to the most powerful telescope,
until the mind, overwhelmed by the vastness of creation, is
crushed by the sense of its own insiguificance, as well as of that

the “great globe and all which it inherit.”

_ ome feeling akin to this is felt by the reviewer, who with

Imited space, and a skill anda knowledge inferior to Dr. Nicnot,

approaches the Architecture of the Heavens. And perhaps the
best mode of conveying an idea of the volume and its contents,
Will be to describe the character and nature of its leading sub-
Jects, and then allow the author to speak for himself in a he. of
Necessity, isolated extracts.

tripping it of all secondary matter, “ Firmaments” is the
LOLOL ener cence nen
subject of Dr. Nicwow’s First Part,—meaning by firmament,
not our solar system, but the whole stellar system, of which our
sun and his attendant planets form a very insignificant part.
The firmanent in which we move and have our being, is the
part of the heavens called the Milky Way, and contains from
eight to ten millions of stars or suns. Its internal shape can be
readily understood, by supposing a long oblong strip of space,
like a breadth of cloth, partially dividing at one end some-
thing like the letter Y, and studded with innumerable spots,
Its elevation, or form, as seen by one looking at it from the out-
side, may be compared in shape to a cheese or grindstone, par-
tially cloven, so as to have for a little space on the rim two
distinct cheeks, which speedily unite again. And the reader
can easily comprehend that any one within, and looking either
up or down the star-studded strip, would see little save stars,
but that, on turning his vision to either side, he would look into
the immeasurable infinity of space. Up to the beginning of
the present century, this circumstance was disregarded or un-
known, when the mighty genius of the elder Herscnet, aided
by his mechanical improvements in the telescope, enab!ed him
and his followers to traverse a portion of space, and there to dis-
cover many firmaments of various forms, grander and more
glorious than our Milky Way. No attempt to reckon their
numbers in the Southern Hemisphere appears yet to have
been made. In the Northern, “after making all allowances,
those whose places are fixed cannot be fewer than between
one and two thousand.” And, what is truly “perhaps the
Strangest and most unexpected circumstance which modern as-
tronomy has revealed,” on the confines of penetrable space, just
visible on the outermost range of telescopic observation, though
too distant to be as yet resolvable into distinct stars, hangs a face
simile of our firmament—a double of our Milky Way; con-
taining, perhaps, another sun and another earth, (for the human
mind, amidst the loftiest grandeur or the most gigantic vastness,
still reverts to the home and the familiar,) and offering a more
singular speculation than the eycular system of some philoso-
phers—that of a counterpart existence to every thing in this
world, What athought—strange, yet comforting—that, at a dis-
tance before which the combined powers of computation and faney
totally fail, each of us has a double, acting, thinking, feeling,
loving, suffering as we do, and from the same exciting causes,
Fancy that there should have been two Homers, two SHax-
SPEARES, two MiLtons, two Newrons! and that whilst the astro-
nomer was pointing his telescope and straining his vision through
remotest space, to spy out new firmaments, a brother eye was
crossing his on a similar errand!

Passing the Second Part with the remarks that the mode ef
doubles and even trebles seems to obtain pretty extensively
throughout the stellar system, so far as human sense and intelli
gence have examined it; and that the law by which the whole of
the firmaments, with their myriad suns and countless worlds, have
been formed, are maintained, and will perhaps finally be destroyed,
is the uniform and the simple one revealed to us by Newron—
the law of gravitation; we proceed to Part the Third. This, sub-
stantially, treats of the existing formation of new worlds, and of
the manner in which the Milky Way, including our sun and
planets, were probably formed. Whilst reading the Universe,
the telescopic eye of Mts often encountered a faint shining
substance, sometimes resolvable into individual stars on the
plication of a more powerful glass, and sometimes not, His
first inference, which he maintained for a long time, was that

this cloudy appearance arose from the extreme distance of the

SS SE eee, ee eee
mass; but at last he noted a star with a dim atmosphere around
it. “ The star,” he writes in hts observation, “ is perfectly in the
centre ; and the atmosphere so diluted, faint, and equal through~
out, that there can be no surmise of its consisting of stars.” The
train of reasoning by which he arrived at this conclusion is so
cogent in itself, and such a specimen of the higher class of

astronomical argument, that we give it with Dr. Nicnox’'s com-
mentary,

“* In the first place,” says he, “ if the nebulosity consists of stars appearing
nebulous hecause of their distance, which causes them to run into each other,
what must be the size of the central body which, at so enormous a distance,
be so far outshines all the rest? In the next place, if the central star be no

igger than common, how very small and compressed must be the other lumi-
nous points which send us only so faint a light? In the former case, the central
body would far exceed what we call a star; and inthe latter, the shining matter
about the centre would be too small to come under that designation. Either,
then, we have a central body which is not a star, or a star involved in a shining
fluid of a nature wholly unknown to us.” The latter alternative may, at first
sight, appear the strangest and the most remote, yet itis the one to which the
balance of probability manifestly inclines. And our judgment rests upon this:
the nebulous fluid, Supposing it to exist, could not became known under any
other aspect or modification ; while, if stars of enormous comparative dimen-
sions were scattered through space, the likelihood is, that some one such body
would be sufficiently near us ¢o permit of our recognizing it under less ambigue

ous characters,

Many facts and further examinations both by himself and others
confirm the existence of these nebule, or matter in its pristine
state. Beyond this all is conjecture, but the conjecture of genius
and science. It would seem that in space, not only suns and
worlds, but firmaments themselves, are in the course of gradual
formation ; some having so far advanced, that suns exist, like the
star which laid the foundation of Herscuen’s conclusions, with
embryo suns around them, whilst others are still in a nebulous
state. Gravitation is the means by which this pristine matter is
drawn together : the probable cause of the rotatory motion of these

FOS Tn RD DS ene Sawa wee eee
Ne eas ake te Me len re ate Sete Ree ee eet eT ne ey 2 ee | ee

| condensing bodies was deduced by Herscuzx, Observing that
when currents of water meet, however gently, a dimple or whirl-
pool is produced, the ever quick and reflective mind of the philo-
sopher detected in this every-day example the mechanical law by
which the sun was driven to revolve upon his axis; and as each
‘successive addition to the whirling mass must increase the speed
of its revolution, the wonderful swiftness of the solar motion is
readily explainable, But though this theory may account for the
sun, we know that our system, and by inference all the rest, con-
sists of a central luminary, with revolving planets; and whence
eame they? The answer has been given by the conjectural in-
duction of Laptace. The cohesion of a revolving body depends
on the “circumstance, that the centrifugal force is not greater
than the power of the central attraction.” If, from any cause,
this balance of forces is destroyed in favour of the centrifu-
gal, some of the parts will be thrown off; as “a grindstone,”
for example, “ may be made to revolve with sufficient rapidity to
cause its whole rim to split in pieces.” “ Now, if the rim, instead
of being formed of brittle stone, had consisted of an elastic belt,
say of caoutchouc, what would have resulted in such a case ?
Clearly, a separation of the rim from the mass of the rotatory body
—it would have expanded somewhat, just as the orbit of a planet
in a similar position; and, had other circumstances permitted,
would have revolved around the stone as a separate ring; ata dis-
tance where the balance or equilibrium of the forces Was restored.”
And these smaller bodies—fragments of sunsand germsof worlds—
might have been multiplied just as they were produced; whilst
a ready answer is given to the first difficulty suggesting itself—
how came all our planets and their satellites, with one distant,
obscure, and insufliciently observed exception, to revolve in their
orbits in the direction of the sun’s rotation upon his axis, and in
the same direction to rotate upon their own? — that upon this
principle they could have revolved in no other course.
a ae Ses awe

_ So much for formation; destruction follows, The fears of New-
ron and his followers lest the planets might eventually be drawn
‘towards the sun by the interfering operation of their own gravities,
were dissipated by Lagraneg, who showed by a subtile analysis
that the planetary influences rectified each other. But it seems
probable that the matter out of which the stars and their satellites
was originally formed, has left behind it “ the lurking principle of
death.” Amongst other effects, the nebulous ether, which accon-
panies the planets, but cannot rota’e as fast as themselves, must
slowly, gradually, imperceptibly, yet inevitably compel them to
approach the central luminary, and to be finally resolved into it;
the wreck of things existent must follow, and the whole system of
the suns, if not of the firmaments, bi gin anew.

In thus briefly attempting to describe the nature of the two
most striking subjects of the Architecture of the Heavens, we
have omitted all proofs: all allusion to collateral or su bordinae
points; and almost all the sketches of the characters of the great
astronomers, which are picturesquely indicated in the narration
of their discoveries, so that we catch glimpses of geniusan the
moment of its exercise. Our extracts must be taken after an
analogous fashion. We shall cull them indifferently from text,
notes, and appendix; so that the reader must cousider them as
specimens of the writer, not of the book. And, having alluded to

the powers of telescopes, the first passage shall briefly tell the
reader what they are.

, wae, TA Vea sp tote wt eee =
Herschel considered that his ten-feet telescope had a Space-penetrating power
of 28}, i. €. it could descry a star 28) times further off than the naked eye can;
to one of his twenty-feet telescopes he assigned the power of 61, and to another
of much better construction, the power of OG. ‘The space-penetrating power
of the forty-feet instrument he settled at 192! But as you may not have a suf-
ficient idea of the profundities represented by these numbers, I shall convert
them into more definite quantities. The depth to which the naked eye can
penetrate into space, appears to extend to stars of the twelfth order of dis-
tances; 7. ¢. it can desery a star twelve times further away than those lumi-
naries, which, from their superior magnitude, we suppose to be nearest us.
Multiply, then, each of the joregoing numbers by tw

elve, and you have, as a
first approximation to the independent pow

ers of telescopes, a new series of
figures, indicating how much further they ca

n pierce than the first or nearest
range of the fixed stars. In the case of the fi

orty-fect reflector, this number is
2,304; which signifies that, if 2,504 stars, extended in a straight line beyond
Sirius, each separated from the one before it by an interval equal to what sepa-
rates the still immeusurable Sitius from the ear th, the forty feet telescope would
see them all. I subjoin only one further statement; the same instrument could

descry a cluster of Stars, consisting of 5,000 individuals, were it situated three
hundred thousand times dee

rin space than Sirius probably is; or, to take
& more distinct standard o} comparison, were it at the remoteness of
11,765,475,948,678,678,679 miles.

Herscuet thought that our system was gradually shifting its
position in the Milky Way, and slow!

y getting nearer to Hercules,
Another astronomer supports the vi iti

and conjectures, that a “ degree of those changes which the
Earth has undergone since life appeared in it, and because of
which our Northern climes were one day capable of harbouring
the palms and gigantic ferns of the tropics, may have supervened

consequence of our gradual translation into the chiller regions
of space.” See now the Supposed geological aspect of our fellow
planets and the cessation of riotous disturbing volcanic powers
as they get old.
yeaa ee

It bas long been known that the elevating cause
to this earth ; its operations are seen in the Moon, in
— also in the Sun, Now, there is an order of a

» whatever it is, is not pecu-
Venus, Mercury, und

ge among these celestial
tes, Of the planets, the eldest Js the furthest off; th

afterwards Jupiter, the four Asteroids, Mars, the Eart
and the i i

en comes Saturn,
h, Venus, Mercury ;
perhaps, the most recent

planets then, shows us this elevating
ety of epochs; and we find, that the
the less rugged or mountainous is it—

Saturn aud Jupiter show no appear.
ance of mountains; those of Venus, and, in all probmbility, of M P

gigantic, when compared with the existing elevation of the Earth ; aod
we reach our own Moon, we find a picture of that torn, crateriform, and dig
turbed surface, which our own earth may have exhibited when the Maes
existing mountains were thrown up, when the pinnacles of the oldest

| were unabraded, and the Tuggedness of the vallies not yet smoothed away
the levelling power of the fluid which deposits and stratifies there the detritgy

| of the primary rocks.

BREWSTER’S PROPOSAL TO MAP THE MOON.
Tn a letter addressed to me by Sir David Brewster, on occasion of our Pres
osing to erect a new and splendidly-furnished observatory in Glasgor, is th,
ollowing interesting paragraph: ‘ To such an observatory, where the fing
achromatic might be accompanied with a better reflecting telescope than hy
yet been made, it would be a leading object to delineate with precision the hily
and vallies of themoon, This planet is much within our reach; and an aceg,
rate knowledge of the phenomena it presents, and of the changes these undergs,
would be a great and most interesting contribution to science. When we com,
pare the telescope in Newton's time to that of Sir William Herschel’s, we
scarcely despair of discovering the structures erected by the inhabitants of
luminary. An achromatic object-glasy of the same size as the speculum gf
Sir William Herschel's forty-feet telescope, would certainly accomplish this,
and no person can say that it is impracticable to do in glass what we have deag
in metal. Had I the means, I would vot scruple to undertake the task ¢
building the lens in zones and segments.” For t honour of British seie
it is be hoped that the power of accomplishing what would immortalize hy
age, will in some way be afforded to this distinguished philosopher.

We will close our extracts with a fitting conclusion, which
also give an example of what Dr. NicHoL displays throughout

a high degree of eloquent poetical feeling, and a profound seng
of natural piety.
The idea of the ultimate dissolution of the solar De has usually been fey
as painful, and forcibly resisted by philosophers. When Newton saw no end »
the deranging effect ‘of the common planetary perturbations, he called for the
special interference of the Almighty to avert’ the catastrophe; and great way
the rejoicing when that recent analyist descried a memorable power of coq.
servation inour system’s constituent henomena; but after all, why should
be painful? Absolute permanence 1s visible nowhere around us, and the fug

of change merely intimates, that in the exhaustless womb of the future, ung

volved wonders are in store. The phenomenon referred to would simply poig

to the close of one mighty cycle in the history of the solar orbh—the Passing
away of arrangements which have fulfilled their objects, that they might he
transformed into new. Thus is the periodic death of a plant perhaps a
sential to its prolonged life, and when the individual dies and disappears, fred
and vigorous forms spring from the elements which composed it. Mark the
chrysalis! Tt is the grave of the worm, but the cradle o the sunborn inseeg
The broken bow! will yet be healed and beautified by the potter, and a voiced
joyful note will awaken, one dey, even the silence of the urn!

Nay, what though all should pass? What though the close of this epeck
in the history of the solar orb should be accompanied, as some by iw strange
fondness have imagined, by the dissolution and disappearing of all these shini
spheres? Then would our universe not have failed in its functions, but ox
been gathered up and rolled away, these functions being complete. That gor
ous material framework wherewith the Eternal hath adorned and varied t
abysses of space, is only an instrument by which the myriads of spirits borm
upon its orbs may be told of their origin, and educated for more exalted being; |

and a time may come when the veil can be drawn aside—when spirit shal
converse dircetly with spirit, nud the creature pave withnur a von hee

eMfulgent face of its Creator; but even then—no, not in that manhood or full
maturity of being, will our fretted vault be forgotten, or its pure inhabitast
pernitted to drop away, Their reality ouy have passed, but their remem
brauce will live for ever.” The warm relationships of Hepeudent childhood ar
ouly the tenderer and the more hallowed, that the grave has enclosed and em
balmed their objects; and no height of excellence, no extent of future great
ness, will ever obscure the vividness of that frail but loved infancy, in which,
as now, we walked upon the beauteous earth and fondly gazed upon these far

off orbs, deeming that they whisper from their bright abodes the a
tidings of Man's immortal destiny ! J
It may not be needful after this to recommend the volume, bet
justice requires us to say that the Architecture of the Heavensis
one of the most interesting expositions of the most stupendous
and soul-subduing subject that ever came under our notice,
Dealing with abstruse questions, it is perfectly plain; with remo
subjects, it is continuously attractive ; and though only profes
sing the character of a popular compilation, it shows that natunl
ability and scientific mastery can impart the spirit and eloquene

of originality, even to the humble oilice of popularizing the diser
Veries of other men,
