OF THE OF
CREATION,
(From the Scottish Christian Instruetor and Monthly
Magazine for the Church of Scotland. }

We give the following excellent and thoroughly philo+
sophical article from the December number of this pes
riodical. The strictures on the wild, unphilosophical,
and even infidel theories contained in the work entitled
* Westiged of Creation,” will be appreciated by our
readers. That a publication so startling should obtain
@ factitious notoriety is not wonderful ; its popularity
in cectain quarters is a strong reason for devout men off
science exposing the fallacies with which it ig crowded :—
The author of * of the of
Creation “ is a theorist in the strictest sense of the term.
The whole book is emivently an hypothesis, It cannot
be said to be a purely philosophical work, or, strictly
speaking, scientifie—but rather a mixture of metaphysics
and of patural science ; the whole held together by a
thread of the writer's own weaving. The whole, there-
fore, depends upon the thread holding the several parts
together. The author tries, on more oceasions than one —
we speak most advisedly—to throw dust into the eyes of
the Christian reader, by seemingly acknowledging, in this
syblunary state of things, the existence and presence of
a God; but all beyond this is gross materialism, sup-
ported by a train of false reasoning, and the whole based
on mistaken and perverted views of philosophy. We have!
said that the work is not philosophical. The great object
of the author seems to have been to clothe his false views
iw philosophy in a popular dress. His aim, notwithstand-
ing his pretensions to the eontsary, is evidently to do
damage to the moral constitution of man—and, instead
of a moral being, to reduce him so as to be nothing else
but the earthly descendant of a ecyclo-neura or diplo-
neura, a polypifera, or a snail. Such is the moral aud
elevating object which this author has in view ; but his
lucubrations possess neither novelty nor truth, and we
have no doybt will soon sink to the level out of which he
would have himeclf and others to have originated. But
let us take the account that this author gives of himself
and of his production.
In a “note conclusary.” he informs us his work
was “composed in solitude.” Let it ever be borne
in mind, that the objects this work embraces includes
the whole “ field of neture,” and objects seattered
throughout almost every country on the face of the
globe, which ought to be visited and judged of by
personal inspection, before one is entitled to theorise and
dogmatise upon them to the extent of unsettling the
whole moral and spiritual framework on which society
for the present hinges. Cersaigs pemarks of Cuvier, in
his * Theory of the Earth,” apply exactly to such an
author as this. Having declared his opinion in so many
words, that there is a ** want of sufficient evidence” to
enable us as yet to ‘‘explain the causes of the presently
existing state of our globe,” this Newton of the natural
sciences goes on to state, that hitherto ** naturalists seem
to have searcely any idea of the propricty of investigating
facts before they construct their systems.” The cause
of this strange Neca he ascribes yo me fact, that
“all geologists hitherto haye either been mere cabinet
naturalists, who had themselyes hardly paid any atten-
sian to the structure of mountains, or mere mineralogists,
who had not studied in sufficient detail the innymerable
diversity of animals, and the almost iajinite complication
of theiv various parts and opgana.”” The consequence
has been, that the “ former of these have only constructed
systems—while the latter have made excellent collections
of observations, and have laid the foundations of true
geological science—but have been unable to raise and
complete the edifice.” Here we have a theorist, who
aspires to none of these characters, inadequate or insuffi-
cient as they may be, for the accomplishment of so great
an gnd. He professes to be nothing more than a “ soli

tary” earth-worm, and goes on coally and systematically
to turn yp the foundations of the earth from her inmost
roots, and to lend a strong hand in the formation of the
universe itself. And all this he accomplishes, as he sup-
poses, with the most perfect facility, without communi-
eating his plan to a ** single fellow-being,” ard that too,
Ly his own confession in ** solitude,” or without leaving
his “ easy-chair. We conceive these remarks to be of)
some importance, or we would not have dwelt so long
upon them. ‘This regenerator or inventor of a new sys-
tem of Taturd is not even a practical naturalist. He is
not known to the world as such; his book giyes no evi-
dence of it. Of course we ean have no confidence in the
reasoniigs or conclusions he draws from objects in hature]
few of which he has perhaps ever seen, and far less in-
spected, either in the cabinet, or im situ.
The object of this work may be stated in a few words.
Tt is an “ aitemps to connect the sciences into al
of creation, and thence to eliminate a view of
SIDES as one grand system of causation.” The author
supposes that the whole of our firmament, all space, was|
at one time a diffused mass of nebulous matter, or what!
in one place he terms a * fire-mist,”’ extending through
the space it still occupies. Such was our system once,
such also were the other astral systems, such as the
tailky way and other nebuke, now resolved by our larger’
and more powerful teleseupes inte masses of suns or
fixed stars. The causation of change hy ascribes to a
general law implanted on nature ov matter, at first by!
the Deity himself, aud left afterwards to the machinery
of its own self-acting operations, without any special in-|
terference of a creative superior power. He, in fact,
represents all things as if left to themselves, as the ostrich
Jeaves its eggs in the sands, and to the operation of a
certain law. God is not represented as creating all
things, but having imposed the general law, he is repre-)
sented as waiting upon them till they create themselves,
Thus (p. 373) he argues on such a theme—* The ehro-
nology of God is not gs ourchronolagy. See the patience
(yes, the patience of an ostrich,) of waiting evinced in
the slow development of the animated kingdoms through
the long series of geological ages. Nothing is it to him
‘that an entire goodly planet should, for an inconceivable’
period, have no inhabiting organisms superior to reptiles.
Nothing is it to him that whole astral systems should be
for infinitely longer spaces of time in the nebular em-
bryo, unfit for the reception of one breathing or sentient
being out of the myriad multitudes who are yet to mani-
fest his goodness and his greatness. Progressive, not
instant effect is his sublime rule. What then can it be
to him that the human race goes through a career of
impulsive acting for a few thousand years? The cruel-
ties of ungoyerned anger, the tyrannies of the rude and
proud over the humble and good, the martyr’s pains and
the patriot’s despair, what are all these but incidents of
an evolution of superior being, which has been pre-ar-
ranged and set forward in independent action, free within
a ceptain limit, but in the main constrcined, through
primordial laws, to go on ever brightening and perfecting,
yet never, while the present dispensation of nature shall
last, to be quite perfect!”
In this medley, we can call it nothing else, what have
we but the old doctrines of fatalism, called here “ prim-
ordial laws,*’ constrained within a ** certain limit,” all
things going on from first to last under these laws, God
meanwhile regarding only the general results, and caring
nothing for the particular instances. In plain terms
there is, according to this author, no particular provi-
dence—God cares nothing aboyt ug ag individuals, not
eyen as the hyman race, but only looks upon us as parts
of a great whole—looking not to the individual but to the
general result, and that result is not connected with us
or about us, but is to go on “ brightening and brighten-
ing’ future races of beings surpassing us as much as we
surpass reptiles. Now this p ion must be infinite
—so we may expect the fabled “ race of gods” to be
surpassed by a brighter and still more superior race.
All this and more than this he attempts to prove from
the connection of the “ hhatural sciences,” and forming
out of them a “ history of creation,”
To return to the nebule or fire-mist of our author,
He makes the whole depend apor the law of attraction,
although we know that the law of repulsion prevails
where there is heat or fire. The nebulous matter, he
says, begins to collect around nuclei, by “ virtue of the
law of attraction.” The agglomeration brings into ope-
ration another physical law, by force of which the “ se-
parate masses of matter are either made to rotate singly,
or, in addition to that single motion, are set into a coupled
revolution in elipses.” ‘> Next,” continues our author,
“ the centrifugal force comes into play, flinging off por-
tions of the rotating masses, which become spheres by
virtue of the same law of attraction, and are held in orbits
of revolution roand the central body hy means of a com-
position between the centrifugal and gravitating forces."*
All this, of course, is done by certain “‘ laws of matter,”
and not by any direct interference of the Almighty. The
sun throws off the planets and the earth the moon, each
of a proper size, and each to its proper place and distance
in the planetary system.
Here this theoretical writer falls into the great blunder,
and most unphilosophical idea, that matter considered
in general, or any part, portion, or smallest particle of
matter, has essential separate qualities, by which one part
acts upon another, It is the essential property of no one
wheel of a machine to move its fellow, though in conse-
quence of its being placed in the station it is fitted for,
it acts upon its fellow, because it is acted upon, If you
interrupt the contact in a machine, you destroy the mo-
tion in all those parts where the communication is de-
stroyed. It is just the same with the whole system of
you cannot take up any parcel of matter and say
of it, this has essential properties which empowers it to
be a hatural agent. A philosopher ought to consider it
as a concrete with a certain disposition of parts liable to
be acted upon, but he is not entitled to consider it both
as active and passive as the thing acting, and the thing
acted upon, or in plain terms, as at once cause and effect.
To set his matter in motion, our author is first obliged to
invert nuclei, or centres of gation, to which other
particles gravitate. Now he is entitled to assume no-
thing ; and, above all, he is not entitled to receive one law
of Datura to serve a purpose, and to reject another law
of haturd to serve the same purpose. If attraction be an
juherent property of matter, so also is it an equally well
established and essential law that a body in a state of
rest would remain so for ever in that condition till there
was some causo to set it in motion. To say that the ne-
bulous matter, which is also a fiction of the brain, ** be-
gun to collect around nuclei,” only provokes the ques-
tion, how did it begin to move, to collect in one place
rather than in another? This author says by “ vir-
tue of the law of attraction.” In reply we assert that,
with respect to attraction, it cannot produce, and in that
sense account for the phenomena, being one of the phe-
nomena produced, and therefore itself to be accounted
for. What is said of forces residing in bodies, whether
attracting or repelling, will not explain a first cause, be-
cause they themselves are only au effect ; indeed attrac-
tion itself can only be considered as a mathematical by-
pothesis, not as anything real and existing per se in nature.
Tnstead of attraction, why not rather take the Newtonian
theory, and content himself with gn investigation of the
laws observed in the agency of the causes of the motion
of commen heavy bodies, viz., gravity ? We suppose the
particles of his nebulse were not heavy enough to venture
on such dangerous grounds, and therefore he overloks
gravitation, and contents himself with attractions and re-
pulsions. How detrimental is it to the increase of know-
ledge in the powers and agency of nature to have the
most curious productions of these powers. reduced, as
this author does, to unintelligible laws, characterised by
words without meaning, and which render the inventors
wiser this m1 heedle sand inattentive.

Having collecied his thin vapour around nuclei, he
forms them into a globe or ball, and by anot! physical
daw, makes them to begin to rotate, or whirl round,
Where he gets this whirling law we cannot say. We
had always thought with Kepler and others, that in con-
sequence of the inertia of matter, all motion is considered
as equable, and rectilineal, and as being in a straight line
with the direction of the moving force, and as preserving
this direetion until it be hindered or put out of its Way
by some extrinsic cause. A ecurvilineal motion is always
a compound motion, there must necessarily be two powers
acting upon all such bodies, or partake of and persevere
in such motions —one impelling them to move ina straight
line, the other deflecting or bending them continually to-
wards a centre. We may, therefore, always consider
deflecting forces as directed to, or from a point. In the
first ease, they are called centripetal forces ; in the se-
cmd case, they are called centrifugal forces. In general
they are termed central! forces ; and the point through
which their direction passes is called the centre of the
forces. It is an easy matter to sit in an arm-chair, and
talk of the earth, when once set in motion by her centri-
fugal foree, throwing off'a mass like the moon, and keep-
ing it in its place and in motion by a“ composition bee
tween the centrifugal and gravitating forces.” How was
the centrifugal foree generated * If it once threw off the
moon, why not throw off our thin and light atmosphere,
the clouds, St Peter's or St Paul's, or the Himalaya
Mountains, or the Andes themselves * The one supposi-
on is just as good as the other, But philosophy teaches
that #!l these forces have a centre, and are directed to a
point, or from a point, Whereas, if this author's theory
be true, the present system begins in nucleus by the

force of attraction, therefore attraction is the first, the
original cause of all the motions we see. Repulsion or
the centrifugal tendency to fly off from the main body is

e of them, therefore must attraction be the cause of
repulsion, and that whieh begun in a nucleus was at
lougth the means of throwing off the moon. Religion, we

think, has surely nothing to fear from such childish and
improbable dreams,

While we offer these remarks, we at the same time
are perfectly alive to the fact that there is nothing new
in this author's speculations, although with a little pour-
donabie vanity he terms them a * first attempt to eonnect
the natural sciences into a history of creation.” It has
long been known that Encke’s comet is a mere body of

apour, of extraordinary tenuity, floating around the sun

shout 3} years, Still a comet fs not a planet—at the
time we admit that there is no argument @ priori

the hypothesis that the matter composing our
globe may once have existed in # gaseous state, and in
that state have revolved round the sun, We all know
the views of La Place on this subject—and the evidence
aulduced by Sir John Herschel on the same subject, espe-
cally in the Philosophical Transactions, 1883, and in his
‘Treatise on Astronomy. But these all treat of such a
matter with becoming modesty and cireumspection, They

speculate on the possibility of such a state of things—bat
they do not show, as this author does, how they eame
about. Here lies the difference between # true philo-
sopher and a mere speculatory, The former proceeds
only upon data givon—the latter assumes his data, and
argues as if they were true. We are not injuring our
author by this comparison. For example, he talks of
nuclei and attraction, but he dees not tell us what would
be the effects of these attractions in pleno and in vacuo,
#. e. ina void, or ina space filled with matter. He makes
no allowance for the presence of heat—does not take into
account the laws of chemistry at all, upon which he is
perfectly silent—he does not even jnform us whether his
original matter or * fire-mist** was homogeneous or aggre-
gate—and yet thege, and many more, are all conditions
that myst be well established and ascertained before we
are entitled to draw any conclusions from them, and far
less to dogmatise as this author has done, as if he were
really proceeding upon solid and substantial grounds.
iow much more truly modest and philosophical the ad-
mission of that scientific naturalist, De La Beche, in his
* Theoretical Geology,” where he at once admits that
the ** probable effects resulting from a mixture of all ter-_
restrial matter in the state of gas or vapour, it would be
exceedingly difficult to appregiate, inasmuch as we are
unacquainted with the matter beneath the crust of the globe,
and even if we were, the necessary calculations would be
so intricate, that it is extremely doubtful if our actual
knowledge could carry us to the end desired.” Our specu-
lator, however, sees no such difficulties, and at once boldly
enters in where ‘* angels fear to tread.”
Rut this fanciful and most obnoxious theorist goes much
farthee than this. Our elements, he supposes, aré only
modifications of what he calls a “ primordial form of
matter,” of which he knows nothing, or can know nothing,
for he cannot prove it to exist. He imagines that gases,
metals, earths, and other so-called elements, as simple
substances, still exist, or are liable to come into existence
under proper conditions in all parts of the universe,
** Matter” he says, * whether it consista of about fifty-
five ingredieuts, or only one, is liable to infinite varieties of
condition under different eireuimstances, or, to speak mere
philosophically, under different laws. As a familiar illus-
tration, water, when subjected to a temperature under 32°
Fahrenheit, becomes ice—raise the temperature to 212°,
and it becomes steam.” This is a poor argument for a
world-maker—and betrays great ignorance in science.
He lays down the above rule with regard to the freez-
ing and evaporation of water as usual as a law. But
only a law under certain conditions, and of ali men
living, a world-waker should be canstantly alive to,
and aware of those conditions, It ts admitted, on all
hands, that the eame body becomes solid, fluid, or aéri-
form, according w the quantity of ealorie by which it is
penetrated ; or, as Lavoisier says, “ more strictly, ac-
cording as the repulsive force exerted by the caloric is
equal to, stronger or weaker, than the attraction of the
particles of the body it acts upon.’* Here lies the
foundation of our anthor’s blunder in his theory of
world-framing If the only two powers he seems to be
aware of, attraction and reputsion, existed, bodies would
become liquid at an indivisible degree of the thermo-
meter, and would almost instantaneously pass from the
solid state of aggregation to that of aériform elasticity.
Thus water, for instange, at the very instant it ceases to
be ice, would begin to boil, and would be transformed
into an aériform Huid, having its particles scattered inde-

finitely through the surrounding space. That this does
not happen must depend upon the action of some third
power. The pressure of the atmosphere prevents this
separation, and causes the water to remain in the liquid
state until raised to the temperature indicated by 212
degrees on the seale of Fahrenheit’s thermometer. ** It
is therefore evident that without this atmospheric pres-
sure,” says Lavoisier, “‘ we should not have any perma-
nent liquid, and should only see bodies in that state of
existence at the very instant of melting, for the smallest
additional calorie would then instantly separate their parti-
cles, and dissipate them through the surrounding medium.
Besides, without this atmospheric pressure, we should
not even have any proper aériform fluids, because the
moment the force of attraction is overeame by the repul-
sive power of the caloric, the particles of bodies would
separate themselves indefinitely, having nothing to give
limits to their expansion, unless their own gravity might
collect them together, so as to form an atmosphere.”
Such are the views of science; they are fatal to our
author's argument. He pretends that the “ nebulous
matter of space, previously to the formation of stellar
and planetary bodies, must have been a universal fire
mist, an idea which we can searcely comprehend, though
the reasons for arriving at it seem irresistible.” He
could scarcely have hit upon a more unfortunate eom-
parison. How could any one of his conditions take
place without an atmosphere F Let him settle that point
with Lavojsier and we are satisfied.
Having made the world out of a mist, and formed the
elements out of primordial matter, he goes on forming,
out of the same materials, the whole visible creation—
toineral, vegetable, and animal. In fact, he considers
the whole as an immense electro-chemica! machine, and
speaks largely of the “ development of organisms along
geological lines.’ His general conclusions i the
geography of organic nature may be thus stat 1. That
there are numerous distinct foci (of course) of organic
preduction throughout the earth. 2, These have every-
where advanced in accordance with the local condition of
climate, &¢., 9s far as, at least, tle class and order are
concerned, @ diversity taking place in the minor grada-
tions. 3. This development is still going on. But we
wil! allow this writer to explain himself. To the ques-
tion, In what way was the creation of animated beings
effected? He replies, “‘ The ordinary notion may, I
think, be described as this: that the Almighty author
produced the progenitors of all existing species, by some
sort of personal or immediate exertion. But how does
this notion comport with what we have seen of the gra-
dual advance of species, &e,#"” The author then goes
on to show that, as the world was not formed directly by
God, but only under the influence of general laws, |
“what,” says he, ** is to hinder our supposing that the
organic creation is also a result of natural laws?” He
admits that God created the laws of matter; but this is
a mere shifting of the question, seeing matter and the
laws of matter are the same. If matter at first existed
without God, so did its laws; and, of course, by such an
argument as this, a God is merely a superfiuity—a some-
thing supernumerary, for which we can see no possible
use, This author teaches that organised bodies and mind
are formed by certain laws out of dead, inert matter.
Let him disguise i it as he may, it is just an old song to a
new tune is nothing more nor less than materialism.

So far as general laws are concerned, we see that one

plant produces another plant of its own class, order,
genus, and species, and that one animal produces another
animal ofa like kind; but that mere matter produces
organisms, or life in any shape, we have no proof whatso-
ever. To draw any argument for a progression of animal
life up from the lowest moluse to man, from such an

ment as that the “human embryo passes through the |
whole space representing the invertebrate animals in th
first month,” (printed by our author in marked letters,)
is mere trifling—and is almost on a par with the wits of
amere embryo. Because a human foetus, at a certain
stage of its being, resembles an oyster or a mussel, is
that any reason for arguing that man himself may have
once been a mussel, or that both arose out of certain
conditions of the air and elements ? Our author would
do well to remember the remark of Plato, that while we
are in this state of existence, slumbering and, as it were,
dreaming, we cannot see the truth of things except by
shadows, as we see them in our sleep ; and it is a certain
truth, that we do not know the substance or essence of
any of the works in nature, but only some of their quali-
ties and properties, For example, al! that we know of
an animal or a vegetable is, that it has such or such
qualities, and by these we define it ; but what is the sub-
stance of it, and what is the hidden essence producing
all these hidden qualities, we cannot tell,
Then as to body—what do we know of it? We see
merely the outward cover—and as to the origin of things,
all else is mere guess-work. To form any tolerable
theory at all, we must imagine a primary or primordial
matter Common to all visibie things, and becoming the
subject of the natura! or subluvary elements, The con-
ception of this original matter, to which we must assign
a capacity or aptitude to receive all forms, are essentials,
and although the obscurest and least visible or tangible
of all things, are still postulates which must be taken as
granted, before we can even begin to speculate on the
present constitution of things, Having thus created our
primordial matter and our elements, to these principles
we must next add form, which draws matter, as it were,
out of its cuaoric sare, or nebulous state, impresses it
with a distinctive character, and renders it an object of
the senses. We do not mean to say that there ever was
actually any matter without body, or body without
quality, but they may be so separated by the mind for
the better contemplation of the well-ordered generation of
things. But to proceed in our analysis—the first form
that u)itter assumes is extension, by which its parts be-
come ¢ ntinuous and cntiguous,—that is, are joined to
one anther, and have one common boundary, which is
threefold--length, breadth, and depth. This trinity of
extension, so to speak, is the only conception we can
form of what may be called “pure aud original body.”
Extension enters into the primary conception of it, But
extension, although the inseparable quality of all objects
or bodies, is itself preeeded by something as its source or
inei f education, without which it would not exist. |
point, or unity, is the essential constituent of a_

line, the line of a superfices, the superfices of a solid—
so that unity is the essential principle of extension. But
even here, body is too vague for scientific contemplation,
Jts extension must be bounded, but the bound or limit
of body is figure ; but even this in its turn is stil! some-
thing vague and indefinite, scarcely an object fur the
bbatural philosopher. It is only body mathematical—but
this is not being sufficient for the purposes of it
must be invested with other forms—not only the external
form must be duly bounded, but the internal parts must
be duly organised,—that is, the materials must be pro-
perly adjusted, disposed, and arranged, which give rise
to body physical. Now, here lies the great difficulty ;—
Are organic, living sentient beings, the mere results of
the “general laws” of matter acting upon matter, and
God only present as the framer of the laws by which it
acts? or does this state of sublunary things clearly indi-
cate the presence of a Divine Mind—in their contrivance,
order, regularity, utility, and beauty? We are all agreed
that, although the common subject matter of all external
forms or beings be in itself boundless and void of all
form, yet the question comes to be—Has matter certain
laws within itself capable of proceeding from the inert
chaotic mass to the formation of man, and, for aught we
know, still higher beings may be in store in the elements
of matter? or were they impressed with form from the
First Great Cause of all things, from whom proceeds
every form, the Lound of every destined being, and the
whole of its essence or essential nature? This is too
large a field to enter upon at present. We shall not fail,
however, to pursue the quthor of this very dangerous and

OR a at S.—e_ FS le

fanciful book to the ultimate conclusions on which all his
principles, which are neither new nor ingenious, ulti-
mately rest, and to prove that religion can receive no
damage from sc": ). tensions. This we shall leave till
another numb:

